slides-new.md, before:

build-lists: true
slide-dividers: #

#

![](./img/title.jpg)

# The app

# Elm syntax

# The Elm Architecture

```elm
type alias Model =
    { ssnInput : String
    , ssnFocus : FocusState
    }

```

# Let's fix the bug!

# The bug from fixing the bug

- This isn't rocket science
- Trial and error

# Fix it, and keep it fixed

- Tests
- Code reviews
- Checklists
- ... 🤔
- Am I really confident it will stay fixed?
- Let's try to eliminate a class of errors!

^ Tests only test what we remember to test
Manually check wrap early...
let's make it easier

# Goal

1. Change the type in a single place ✏️
1. Address all of the compiler errors 🛑
1. End up with the bug fixed 💸

## Rules

1. Compiler error-driven
1. Only wrap or unwrap at terminals

# Rules

- Only wrap or unwrap at terminals!
- Wrap early
  - Right after it enters
- Unwrap late
  - Arguments to functions you control are not terminals

1. Unwrap late

# Fix it - for real this time!

# "Wrapper Types" in Elm

```haskell
getProfile : String -> String -> Cmd msg
getProfile userId authToken =
  Http.get -- ...
```

-

```haskell
getProfile model.authToken model.userId
```

# "Wrapper Types" in Elm

```haskell
type UserId = UserId String
type AuthToken = AuthToken String
```

-

```haskell
getProfile : UserId -> AuthToken -> Cmd msg
getProfile (UserId userId) (AuthToken authToken) =
  Http.get -- ...
```

```haskell
-- Error! 🛑
getProfile model.authToken model.userId
```

# Rule of thumb

- Wrap early
- Unwrap late
- But it's a String whether it's wrapped or not

# Tip

Use types to represent what the thing is.

- Semantic types!
- Cheap to start with
- Good stepping stone

# Evolving our type

1. Primitives
1. Type with public constructor

# Problem

- Okay, that made it easier to unwrap late
- Can I make it impossible?

# What are modules?

1. Group types and functions
1. Hide some of them

- The groupings determine what can be hidden
- Ways to organize
- Construct (`Types.elm`, `Views.elm`)
  - Have to expose everything
  - Hard to navigate
- Type & domain concept

# Opaque Types

- Just means "private constructor"
  1. Move to module
  1. Hide the constructor
  1. (But expose the type for annotations)
  1. Make functions for using it

# -

![fit](./img/opaque-types-0.png)

# -

![fit](./img/opaque-types-1.png)

# -

![fit](./img/opaque-types-2.png)

# -

![fit](./img/opaque-types-3.png)

# -

![fit](./img/opaque-types-4.png)

# -

![inline original 100%](./img/opaque-types-4.png)

- Opaque ✅
- Blackbox
- Invert responsibility

# Continuing down the path

1. Primitives
1. Type with public constructor
1. Move to module
1. Control the entrance (accessor, but no constructor)
1. Control the exits (no accessors)
1. "One-stop-shop"

- Invert responsibility

# Adapter

- Decouple the arguments from things owned in Main
  - Model
  - Msg
- Easier to iterate in the same file
- "Make the change easy, then make the easy change." - Kent Beck

# How it helps

- Only one places to make sure its secure
- Only one place if we add encryption/decryption

# Cues

- Enforce constraint
- `ssnInput`, `maskedSsn`, `getSsn`, ...
- Long import list
- Too many responsibilities

^ Our constraint was security

# Thank you!

Commit message:

Add slides for encapsulating accessors.

slides-new.md, after:

build-lists: true
slide-dividers: #

#

![](./img/title.jpg)

# The app

# Elm syntax

# The Elm Architecture

```elm
type alias Model =
    { ssnInput : String
    , ssnFocus : FocusState
    }

```

# Let's fix the bug!

# The bug from fixing the bug

- This isn't rocket science
- Trial and error

# Fix it, and keep it fixed

- Tests
- Code reviews
- Checklists
- ... 🤔
- Am I really confident it will stay fixed?
- Let's try to eliminate a class of errors!

^ Tests only test what we remember to test
Manually check wrap early...
let's make it easier

# Goal

1. Change the type in a single place ✏️
1. Address all of the compiler errors 🛑
1. End up with the bug fixed 💸

## Rules

1. Compiler error-driven
1. Only wrap or unwrap at terminals

# Rules

- Only wrap or unwrap at terminals!
- Wrap early
  - Right after it enters
- Unwrap late
  - Arguments to functions you control are not terminals

1. Unwrap late

# "Wrapper Types" in Elm

```haskell
getProfile : String -> String -> Cmd msg
getProfile userId authToken =
  Http.get -- ...
```

-

```haskell
getProfile model.authToken model.userId
```

# "Wrapper Types" in Elm

```haskell
type UserId = UserId String
type AuthToken = AuthToken String
```

-

```haskell
getProfile : UserId -> AuthToken -> Cmd msg
getProfile (UserId userId) (AuthToken authToken) =
  Http.get -- ...
```

```haskell
-- Error! 🛑
getProfile model.authToken model.userId
```

# Fix it - for real this time!

# Rule of thumb

- Wrap early
- Unwrap late
- But it's a String whether it's wrapped or not

# Tip

Use types to represent what the thing is.

- Semantic types!
- Cheap to start with
- Good stepping stone

# Explicit Accessors ✅

![original](img/unencapsulated-accessors.png)

# Encapsulate Accessors

![original](img/encapsulated-accessors.png)

# Evolving our type

1. Primitives
1. Type with public constructor

# Problem

- Okay, that made it easier to unwrap late
- Can I make it impossible?

# What are modules?

1. Group types and functions
1. Hide some of them

- The groupings determine what can be hidden
- Ways to organize
- Construct (`Types.elm`, `Views.elm`)
  - Have to expose everything
  - Hard to navigate
- Type & domain concept

# Opaque Types

- Just means "private constructor"
  1. Move to module
  1. Hide the constructor
  1. (But expose the type for annotations)
  1. Make functions for using it

# -

![fit](./img/opaque-types-0.png)

# -

![fit](./img/opaque-types-1.png)

# -

![fit](./img/opaque-types-2.png)

# -

![fit](./img/opaque-types-3.png)

# -

![fit](./img/opaque-types-4.png)

# -

![inline original 100%](./img/opaque-types-4.png)

- Opaque ✅
- Blackbox
- Invert responsibility

# Continuing down the path

1. Primitives
1. Type with public constructor
1. Move to module
1. Control the entrance (accessor, but no constructor)
1. Control the exits (no accessors)
1. "One-stop-shop"

- Invert responsibility

# Adapter

- Decouple the arguments from things owned in Main
  - Model
  - Msg
- Easier to iterate in the same file
- "Make the change easy, then make the easy change." - Kent Beck

# How it helps

- Only one places to make sure its secure
- Only one place if we add encryption/decryption

# Cues

- Enforce constraint
- `ssnInput`, `maskedSsn`, `getSsn`, ...
- Long import list
- Too many responsibilities

^ Our constraint was security

# Thank you!
